Improve API documentation and examples (#299)
GIScience/ohsome-quality-analyst: docs/api.md

- To request an Indicator for a custom AOI provide following parameters: parameters: `name`, `layerName` and `bpolys`
- To request an Indicator for a custom AOI and custom data provide following parameters: `name`, `bpolys` and `layer`

Depending on the input, the output will be a GeoJSON Feature or FeatureCollection with the results of the Indicator as properties. The Feature properties of the input GeoJSON will be preserved if they do not collide with the properties set by OQT.

### Parameters

- `name`: Name of the Indicator
- `layerName`: Name of the layer definition
- `dataset`: Name of the dataset containing bounding polygons
- `featureId`: Identifier of the feature in the dataset
- `bpolys`: Bounding polygon(s) as GeoJSON Feature or FeatureCollection object. The Geometry of those objects has to be Polygon or MultiPolygon.
- `layer`: Name, description and data of a custom layer. Data has to be provided in the same format as the response of the ohsome API would look like.
- `includeSvg` (boolean): Include a SVG string of a figure displaying the Indicator
results
- `includeHtml` (boolean): Include a HTML string with the Indicator results

> Parameters are in part mutual exclusive (E.g. either `dataset` and `featureId` or `bpolys`. If the response contains multiple errors probably not all required parameters and/or mutual exclusive parameters has been provided.

Reviewer: Here you miss a closing bracket. I do not fully get the second  sentence: how can a response contain "multiple errors"? In any case it should be "have been provided".

Author: Added the missing bracket.

### A Note on the Difference of `GET` and `POST` Requests

To the endpoint `/indicator` a request can be made using either the `GET` or `POST` method.

> For `GET` requests to either of those endpoints only the parameters `dataset` and `feature_id` are supported.

Reviewer: is this referring to the indicators endpoint or also to other endpoints? here you write "those endpoints", but I'm not sure if there are other endpoints than `/indicator`

Author: Copy and paste error. I fixed this sentence.

> # API 

Reviewer 2: trailing whitespace

Author: Removed

- To request an Indicator for a custom AOI provide following parameters: parameters: `name`, `layerName` and `bpolys`
- To request an Indicator for a custom AOI and custom data provide following parameters: `name`, `bpolys` and `layer`

Depending on the input, the output will be a GeoJSON Feature or FeatureCollection with the results of the Indicator as properties. The Feature properties of the input GeoJSON will be preserved if they do not collide with the properties set by OQT.

### Parameters

- `name`: Name of the Indicator
- `layerName`: Name of the layer definition
- `dataset`: Name of the dataset containing bounding polygons
- `featureId`: Identifier of the feature in the dataset
- `bpolys`: Bounding polygon(s) as GeoJSON Feature, FeatureCollection, Polygon or MultiPolygon object. The Geometry has to be of type Polygon or MultiPolygon.
- `layer`: Name, description and data of a custom layer. Data has to be provided in the same format as the response of the ohsome API would look like.
- `includeSvg` (boolean): Include a SVG string of a figure displaying the Indicator
results

> - `includeHtml` (boolean): Include a HTML string with the Indicator results

Author: Yeah. A table is quite neat.
I changed to list to a table.

Parameters are in part mutual exclusive (E.g. either `dataset` and `featureId` or `bpolys`). If the response contains multiple errors probably not all required parameters and/or mutual exclusive parameters has been provided.

### A Note on the Difference of `GET` and `POST` Requests

To the endpoint `/indicator` a request can be made using either the `GET` or `POST` method.
For `GET` requests to this endpoint only the parameters `dataset` and `feature_id` are supported.
That means that it is not possible to create an indicator for a custom AOI using the `bpolys` parameter by making a `GET` request to the API.

Using the `POST` method all types of requests (see above) and parameters are supported.

### Request an Indicator for an OQT AOI using Python and `requests` Library

GET request:

```python
import requests

url = "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator"
parameters = {
    "name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings",
    "layerName": "building_count",
    "dataset": "regions",
    "featureId": 3,
    "fidField": "ogc_fid",  # Optional
    "includeSvg": False,  # Optional
    "includeHtml": False,  # Optional
}
response = requests.get(url, params=parameters)

> assert response.status_code == 200

Author: Removed the assert statement as it is not necessary.

    "name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings",
    "layerName": "building_count",
    "dataset": "regions",
    "featureId": 3,
    "fidField": "ogc_fid",  # Optional
    "includeSvg": False,  # Optional
    "includeHtml": False,  # Optional
}
response = requests.post(url, json=parameters)

> assert response.status_code == 200

Reviewer 2: same question

Author: Removed the assert statement as it is not necessary.

```

### Request an Indicator for a custom AOI using Python and `requests` Library

```python
import requests

url = "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/indicator"
bpolys = {
    "type": "Polygon",
    "coordinates": [
        [
            [8.674092292785645, 49.40427147224242],
            [8.695850372314453, 49.40427147224242],
            [8.695850372314453, 49.415552187316095],
            [8.674092292785645, 49.415552187316095],
            [8.674092292785645, 49.40427147224242],
        ]
    ],
}
parameters = {
    "name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings",
    "layerName": "building_count",
    "bpolys": bpolys,
    "includeSvg": False,  # Optional
    "includeHtml": False,  # Optional
}
response = requests.post(url, json=parameters)

> assert response.status_code == 200

Author: Removed the assert statement as it is not necessary.

            {"timestamp": "2015-12-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5627},
            {"timestamp": "2016-01-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5643},
            {"timestamp": "2016-02-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5680},
            {"timestamp": "2016-03-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5681},
            {"timestamp": "2016-04-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5828},
            {"timestamp": "2016-05-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5974},
            {"timestamp": "2016-06-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5990},
            {"timestamp": "2016-07-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5991},
            {"timestamp": "2016-08-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 5997},
            {"timestamp": "2016-09-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 6002},
            {"timestamp": "2016-10-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 6010},
            {"timestamp": "2016-11-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 6010},
            {"timestamp": "2016-12-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 6016},
            {"timestamp": "2017-01-01T00:00:00Z", "value": 6015},
        ]
    }
}
parameters = {
    "name": "GhsPopComparisonBuildings",
    "bpolys": bpolys,
    "layer": layer,
    "includeSvg": False,  # Optional
    "includeHtml": False,  # Optional
}
response = requests.post(url, json=parameters)

> assert response.status_code == 200

Reviewer 2: see above

Author: Removed the assert statement as it is not necessary.

```

## Report Endpoint

Two types of requests can be made:

- To request a Report for an AOI defined by OQT provide following parameters: `name`, `dataset` and `featureId`
- To request a Report for a custom AOI provide following parameters: parameters: `name` and `bpolys`

Depending on the input, the output will be a GeoJSON Feature or FeatureCollection with the results of the Report and each Indicator as properties. The Feature properties of the input GeoJSON will be preserved if they do not collide with the properties set by OQT.

### Parameters

- `name`: Name of the Rerpot
- `dataset`: Name of the dataset containing bounding polygons
- `featureId`: Identifier of the feature in the dataset
- `bpolys`: Bounding polygon(s) as GeoJSON Feature or FeatureCollection object. The Geometry of those objects has to be Polygon or MultiPolygon.
- `includeSvg` (boolean): Include a SVG string of a figure displaying the Indicator
results
- `includeHtml` (boolean): Include a HTML string with the Indicator results

> Parameters are in part mutual exclusive (E.g. either `dataset` and `featureId` or `bpolys`). If the response contains multiple errors probably not all required parameters and/or mutual exclusive parameters has been provided.

Reviewer: same question as above on the multiple errors.

```

## Report Endpoint

Two types of requests can be made:

> - To request a Report for an AOI defined by OQT provide following parameters: `name`, `dataset` and `featureId`
> - To request a Report for a custom AOI provide following parameters: parameters: `name` and `bpolys`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To request a Report for an AOI defined by OQT provide the following parameters: `name`, `dataset` and `featureId`
- To request a Report for a custom AOI provide the following parameters: parameters: `name` and `bpolys`
```

Depending on the input, the output will be a GeoJSON Feature or FeatureCollection with the results of the Report and each Indicator as properties. The Feature properties of the input GeoJSON will be preserved if they do not collide with the properties set by OQT.

### Parameters

- `name`: Name of the Rerpot
- `dataset`: Name of the dataset containing bounding polygons
- `featureId`: Identifier of the feature in the dataset
- `bpolys`: Bounding polygon(s) as GeoJSON Feature or FeatureCollection object. The Geometry of those objects has to be Polygon or MultiPolygon.
- `includeSvg` (boolean): Include a SVG string of a figure displaying the Indicator
results

> - `includeHtml` (boolean): Include a HTML string with the Indicator results

Reviewer 2: See table comment above

Author: Yeah. A table is quite neat.
I changed to list to a table.

> Parameters are in part mutual exclusive (E.g. either `dataset` and `featureId` or `bpolys`). If the response contains multiple errors probably not all required parameters and/or mutual exclusive parameters has been provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some parameters are mutually exclusive (E.g. either `dataset` and `featureId` or `bpolys`). If the response contains multiple errors, it is likely that not all required parameters and/or mutually exclusive parameters have been provided.
```

### A Note on the Difference of `GET` and `POST` Requests

> To the endpoint `/report` a request can be made using either the `GET` or `POST` method.
> For `GET` requests to this endpoint only the parameters `dataset` and `feature_id` are supported.
> That means that it is not possible to create a Report for a custom AOI using the `bpolys` parameter by making a `GET` request to the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A request can be made to the `/report` endpoint using either the `GET` or `POST` method. For `GET` requests to this endpoint, only the `dataset` and `feature_id` parameters are supported. That means that it is not possible to create a Report for a custom AOI using the `bpolys` parameter by making a `GET` request to the API.
```

Using the `POST` method all types of requests (see above) and parameters are supported.

### Request an Report for an OQT AOI using Python and `requests` Library

GET request:

```python
import requests

url = "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/report"
parameters = {
    "name": "SimpleReport",
    "dataset": "regions",
    "featureId": 3,
    "includeSvg": False,
    "includeHtml": False,
}
response = requests.get(url, params=parameters)

> assert response.status_code == 200

Reviewer 2: see above comment about the assert

Author: Removed the assert statement as it is not necessary.

```

POST request:

```python
import requests

url = "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/report"
parameters = {
    "name": "SimpleReport",
    "dataset": "regions",
    "featureId": 3,
    "includeSvg": False,
    "includeHtml": False,
}
response = requests.post(url, json=parameters)

> assert response.status_code == 200

Reviewer 2: see above comment about the assert

Author: Removed the assert statement as it is not necessary.

```

### Request an Report for a custom AOI using Python and `requests` Library

```python
import requests

url = "https://oqt.ohsome.org/api/report"
bpolys = {
    "type": "Polygon",
    "coordinates": [
        [
            [8.674092292785645, 49.40427147224242],
            [8.695850372314453, 49.40427147224242],
            [8.695850372314453, 49.415552187316095],
            [8.674092292785645, 49.415552187316095],
            [8.674092292785645, 49.40427147224242],
        ]
    ],
}
parameters = {
    "name": "SimpleReport",
    "bpolys": bpolys,
    "includeSvg": False,
    "includeHtml": False,
}
response = requests.post(url, json=parameters)

> assert response.status_code == 200

Reviewer 2: see above comment about the assert

Author: Removed the assert statement as it is not necessary.
